README.md, before:

# TMDB Filtering

## Calendars

- [fr-FR]([https://](https://efrecon.github.io/tmdb-events/fr-FR/2025.ics))

## Running

Create an API key.
Set the `TMDB_KEY` environment variable to the content of the API key.
Using the key for reading from the DB is enough.
**Note**: the key below is invalid, it is here for demonstration purposes only.

```bash
# API key to TMDB
TMDB_KEY=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJhdWQiOiIyZGJiN2Q0NWVkYjNiMWE1ZjdiZTNhZjRjOTE0NDJmMyIsIm5iZiI6MTc2Mzc0MDczNS4xNzUsInN1YiI6IjY5MjA4YzNmY2FjOTUxY2ZhYjVkNjM0OCIsInNjb3BlcyI6WyJhcGlfcmVhZCJdLCJ2ZXJzaW9uIjoxfQ.O2KdtTsUWvK2AUCAXPe33PklbRkm_GNk3lV4Wx_mYn0
export TMDB_KEY
```

## Examples

### Dumping the Entire TMDB

To dump the entire TMDB knowledge about an entity type, e.g. `person` run a command similar to the following.
This **is** a lengthy operation.
Some care is taken as to not bump into rate limiting issues.
Note that this changes the output language to french as an example, the default is `en-US`.

```bash
./dump.sh -l fr-FR -v -- person
```

### Filtering a Dump

#### Select French-related persons

To only dump persons that mention a french relation in their biography and place of birth, use a command as below.
This uses the [`filter.sh`](./filter.sh) to keep only persons that match the regular expression in their biography or place of birth.

```bash
FILTER_KEYS=".biography .place_of_birth"
FILTER_REGEX="(français|francais|french|france)"
export FILTER_KEYS FILTER_REGEX

./dump.sh -l fr-FR -f "./filter.sh -v" -- person
```

#### Select people born in France and around

To only dump persons born in France and French-speaking countries nearby, do as follows instead.

```bash
FILTER_KEYS=".place_of_birth"
FILTER_REGEX="(france|belgique|suisse|luxembourg)"
export FILTER_KEYS FILTER_REGEX

./dump.sh -l fr-FR -f "./filter.sh -v" -- person
```

### Extract Results

Extracting results can be done through the [`show.sh`](./show.sh).
Internally, this is how [`filter.sh`](./filter.sh) dumps data out of downloaded JSON files for entities.

#### Dump Identifiers

Generated JSON files are named after the identifiers of the entities.
However, the following command will actively look for the id in all files in a directory resulting from above:

```bash
./show.sh -k 'id' -- ./data/person
```

#### Dump Person's names and bio

```bash
./show.sh -k 'name biography' -- ./data/person
```

#### Update Current Set

You can actualize your current set using a command similar to the one below.
This will request again data for all already known persons.
Note that these commands pinpoint the data directory for input and output on purpose to avoid mistakes.

```bash
./show.sh -k 'id' -- ./data/person | ./dump.sh -l fr-FR -v -r ./data -- person
```

### Searching for matching data

#### All persons born today

This uses the [`select.sh`](./select.sh) tool.
It will search for entities that match one or several keys.
The content of the keys will be matched against the same regular expression.
The default is to print the value for the keys, together with the path to the file (tabulated).

The example below would print all known persons born on the same day as today, and their birthdate.
This works because the default is to print the keys that are used for the match.

```bash
./select.sh -w 'birthday' -r "$(date +'%m-%d')\$" -- ./data/person
```

Selecting from a directory can be slow because it has to read all files from that directory and extract the value of the JSON keys for all files.
You can apply a pre-filter that enforces the **textual** content to match a regular expression before selecting.
In most cases, this pre-filter should be something that is very similar to regular expression to match, but without begin/end of string/line markers.

```bash
./select.sh -w 'birthday' -q "$(date +'%m-%d')" -r "$(date +'%m-%d')\$" -- ./data/person
```

#### Most popular person born today

The following command would show the most popular person born today.
It works by requesting to show other keys, led by the popularity and sorting on that popularity score as a numerical value.

```bash
./select.sh -k 'popularity birthday name' -q "$(date +'%m-%d')" -w 'birthday' -r "$(date +'%m-%d')\$" -- ./data/person |
  sort -k 1 -g -r |
  head -n 1
```

## TODO

+ Remove files where the biography is empty?

Commit message:

📝 Fix URL to french cal

README.md, after:

# TMDB Filtering

## Calendars

Calenders are automatically generated for French-born person at the following locations.

- [fr-FR](https://efrecon.github.io/tmdb-events/fr-FR/2025.ics)

## Running

Create an API key.
Set the `TMDB_KEY` environment variable to the content of the API key.
Using the key for reading from the DB is enough.
**Note**: the key below is invalid, it is here for demonstration purposes only.

```bash
# API key to TMDB
TMDB_KEY=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJhdWQiOiIyZGJiN2Q0NWVkYjNiMWE1ZjdiZTNhZjRjOTE0NDJmMyIsIm5iZiI6MTc2Mzc0MDczNS4xNzUsInN1YiI6IjY5MjA4YzNmY2FjOTUxY2ZhYjVkNjM0OCIsInNjb3BlcyI6WyJhcGlfcmVhZCJdLCJ2ZXJzaW9uIjoxfQ.O2KdtTsUWvK2AUCAXPe33PklbRkm_GNk3lV4Wx_mYn0
export TMDB_KEY
```

## Examples

### Dumping the Entire TMDB

To dump the entire TMDB knowledge about an entity type, e.g. `person` run a command similar to the following.
This **is** a lengthy operation.
Some care is taken as to not bump into rate limiting issues.
Note that this changes the output language to french as an example, the default is `en-US`.

```bash
./dump.sh -l fr-FR -v -- person
```

### Filtering a Dump

#### Select French-related persons

To only dump persons that mention a french relation in their biography and place of birth, use a command as below.
This uses the [`filter.sh`](./filter.sh) to keep only persons that match the regular expression in their biography or place of birth.

```bash
FILTER_KEYS=".biography .place_of_birth"
FILTER_REGEX="(français|francais|french|france)"
export FILTER_KEYS FILTER_REGEX

./dump.sh -l fr-FR -f "./filter.sh -v" -- person
```

#### Select people born in France and around

To only dump persons born in France and French-speaking countries nearby, do as follows instead.

```bash
FILTER_KEYS=".place_of_birth"
FILTER_REGEX="(france|belgique|suisse|luxembourg)"
export FILTER_KEYS FILTER_REGEX

./dump.sh -l fr-FR -f "./filter.sh -v" -- person
```

### Extract Results

Extracting results can be done through the [`show.sh`](./show.sh).
Internally, this is how [`filter.sh`](./filter.sh) dumps data out of downloaded JSON files for entities.

#### Dump Identifiers

Generated JSON files are named after the identifiers of the entities.
However, the following command will actively look for the id in all files in a directory resulting from above:

```bash
./show.sh -k 'id' -- ./data/person
```

#### Dump Person's names and bio

```bash
./show.sh -k 'name biography' -- ./data/person
```

#### Update Current Set

You can actualize your current set using a command similar to the one below.
This will request again data for all already known persons.
Note that these commands pinpoint the data directory for input and output on purpose to avoid mistakes.

```bash
./show.sh -k 'id' -- ./data/person | ./dump.sh -l fr-FR -v -r ./data -- person
```

### Searching for matching data

#### All persons born today

This uses the [`select.sh`](./select.sh) tool.
It will search for entities that match one or several keys.
The content of the keys will be matched against the same regular expression.
The default is to print the value for the keys, together with the path to the file (tabulated).

The example below would print all known persons born on the same day as today, and their birthdate.
This works because the default is to print the keys that are used for the match.

```bash
./select.sh -w 'birthday' -r "$(date +'%m-%d')\$" -- ./data/person
```

Selecting from a directory can be slow because it has to read all files from that directory and extract the value of the JSON keys for all files.
You can apply a pre-filter that enforces the **textual** content to match a regular expression before selecting.
In most cases, this pre-filter should be something that is very similar to regular expression to match, but without begin/end of string/line markers.

```bash
./select.sh -w 'birthday' -q "$(date +'%m-%d')" -r "$(date +'%m-%d')\$" -- ./data/person
```

#### Most popular person born today

The following command would show the most popular person born today.
It works by requesting to show other keys, led by the popularity and sorting on that popularity score as a numerical value.

```bash
./select.sh -k 'popularity birthday name' -q "$(date +'%m-%d')" -w 'birthday' -r "$(date +'%m-%d')\$" -- ./data/person |
  sort -k 1 -g -r |
  head -n 1
```

## TODO

+ Remove files where the biography is empty?
